1 January:The UK government announces that all primary schools in London will remain closed for the start of the winter term.
2 January:Police chiefs have called for police officers to be given priority for COVID vaccinationsafter reports that 1,300 Metropolitan Policeofficers are absent from work because of the virus.An anti-lockdown protestis held in Hyde Parkin London17 people are arrested at the demonstration.Teaching unions have told primary school staff it is unsafe to return to school and urged them to implement remote learning as pressure grows on the government to keep schools closed for the first two weeks of January following its decision to do so in London.
3 January:Paediatricians have sought to reassure parents that the new strain of COVIDis not more dangerous to children after a nurse based at a London hospital told the BBC that her hospital had a while ward of childrensuffering with the virus.Garrett Emmerson, the Chief Executive of the London Ambulance Service, describes the service as being under incredible pressurebut coping.Wendy Simon, the Acting Mayor of Liverpool, and other Liverpool City Council members, have called for England to go into a national lockdown in order to curb rising COVID cases in the city.Leader of the Opposition Sir Keir Starmercalls for a national lockdown to be announced within 24 hours in order to tackle the rising number of COVID cases.Johnson has also stated that tougher restrictions are probably about to get tougherin some parts of England as COVID-19 cases continue to increase.Following concerns about the safety of reopening schools, Prime Minister Boris Johnsonhas urged parents of primary age children to send them to school the following day if their school is open, saying there is no doubt in my mind that schools are safe.Despite this, many primary schools have still decided to not open after the Christmas break. So far Essex Council has said that would keep schools closed at least until 6 JanuaryKent county Council along with Birmingham's education authorities asked the Education Secretary to allow primaries to stay closed. They said the argument for reopening amid high infection rates does not stack up.
7 January:Nursery providers have asked the government to provide them with evidence that it is safe for them to remain open while schools and colleges are closed.A change in government rules regarding who can attend school now permits children without laptops or room to study to attend, sparking concerns schools will be overrun with such children.
8 January:With lockdown and school closures in force, it is reported that referrals for children with mental health problems have reached a record high.The Telegraphreports that GP surgeries are being offered 1,000 to cancel appointments for the second COVID inoculation so that more first inoculations can be done, and are also being given a script for dealing with angry patients.An England-wide advertising campaign launches on television, fronted by Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty, urging people to stay at home and act as though they have COVID.Two UK's two headteachers' unions, the NAHTand ASCL, have expressed concern at the number of children attending school during lockdown and called for limitsschool attendance is at 50in some areas.Sadiq Kahn, the Mayor of London, declares a major incidentin London, where he says COVID is out of control.
10 January:As it is reported that 130,000 letters have been sent out so far inviting people to regional vaccination hubs for a COVID vaccine, a number of people aged over 80 have questioned why they have been asked to attend venues that can be as much as a 30–45 minute drive from home when they have been asked to shield.Regular rapid testing for people without COVID symptoms are to be made available throughout England in the coming week.
12 January:Downing Street has defended Prime Minister Boris Johnson for taking a seven-mile bike ride, which it says complied with COVID regulations. The trip came to light after Johnson was spotted cycling in Olympic Park.It is reported that London's Nightingale Hospital has reopened and is taking COVID patients.A leaked memo warns that hospitals in Birmingham are in a position of extremisas COVID cases in the city rise, with 200 doctors set to be redeployed to the intensive care unit of the Queen Elizabeth Hospital.Home Secretary Priti Patelurges people to play theirpartin following COVID rules, and says she will back the police in enforcing them.
13 January:In a letter to the education watchdog Ofqual, Education Secretary Gavin Williamsonsuggests that GCSE, AS and A Level students could be asked to sit mini-exams in order to help their teachers decide deserved grades.
14 January:Ambulance and COVID vaccination services in Yorkshire are hampered by heavy snow.
15 January:Proposals published jointly by the Department for Education and Ofqual suggest GCSE and A Level results could be published in early July in 2021 rather than August as in previous years.Police charge a 33-year-old man with fraud and common assault after he is alleged to have administered a fake COVID vaccine to a 92-year-old woman then charged her 160 in December 2020.A small number of intensive care patients with COVID-19are moved from hospitals in London to Newcastle Upon Tyne, it is reported.Professor Chris Whittyforecasts that hospital admissions will peak in the next seven to ten days.
16 January:Former RAFFlight Sergeant Louis Godwin, 95, becomes the first person to receive a COVID vaccination at a vaccination centre established in Salisbury Cathedral.
17 January:The next phase of the COVID vaccination programmeis announced, with people aged 70 and over, as well as those clinically extremely vulnerable, to begin receiving offers of vaccine over the forthcoming week.In a letter to the UK government, a group of London-based businessmen call for financial support for the rail firm Eurostar.NHS England Chief Executive Sir Simon Stevenssays that 140 COVID injections are being given each minute, a rate four times greater than the number of cases being detected.The UK government announces a financial support package for airports in England, which is scheduled to begin by the end of January.Speaking to Sky News's Sophy Ridge on Sunday, Foreign Secretary Dominic Raabsays the government's target is to offer every adult their first dose of COVID vaccine by September, with some lockdown restrictions being eased by March.
18 January:London is to begin trialling 24-hour vaccination centres by the end of January, it is reported.A further ten mass vaccination centres are opened at venues in England, including Blackburn Cathedraland St Helens Rugby Ground.
19 January:Figures released by the Office for National Statisticssuggest that as many as one in eight people, or 5.4 million people, had been infected with COVID by December 2020.
20 January:24-hour vaccination schemes are piloted at hospitals in Birmingham and Nottingham.The government announces that the rollout of daily mass testing in secondary schools as an alternative to self-isolation will be paused because the benefits of it are unclear following the emergence of the new variant of COVID.
21 January:Boris Johnson says it is too earlyto say whether lockdown restrictions can be lifted in the spring.Pulse oximeters, which measure the oxygen level in the body, are being rolled out to patients at high risk of COVID, in a bid to detect the silent hypoxiaelement of the virus. The oximeter measures the level of oxygen in the blood.Education Secretary Gavin Williamsonsays that schools will be given two weeks notice before they return, but that he cannot say when this will be, though he hopes they will be open again before Easter.At a Downing StreetPress Conference, Home Secretary Priti Patelannounces that fines of 800 for anyone attending a house party of more than 15 people will be introduced in England from the following week.
22 January:A Downing Street spokesman has said there are no plans to give universal payments of 500 to everyone in England asked to self-isolate after the idea was suggested in a document produced by the Department of Health and Social Care.The Metropolitan Policeannounce the break up of a wedding party at the Yesodey Hatorah Senior Girls' Schoolin Stamford Hill, London. After initially claiming there were 400 attendees, they later revise this figure down to 150.
24 January:Six COVID test centres across the West Midlandsare temporarily closed after the area is hit by heavy snowfall.Police have issued 15,000 in fines after 300 people attended a rave beneath a railway arch in London.
25 January:Health Secretary Matt Hancocksays there are early signs that COVID restrictions are working, but that it is difficult to put a timelineon when they can be lifted.A number of Conservative MPs, including Robert Halfon, chair of the House of Commons Education Select Committee, have urged the government to set out its strategy for reopening schools in England as concerns grow about the impact closures are having on children's education.In response, Prime Minister Johnson says the government will give an update on when schools can reopen as soon as we can.
26 January:Fines of 200 are to be given to 31 Metropolitan Police officers who broke COVID rules by having a haircuttwo officers who hired ta barber to give the haircuts are to face misconduct investigations.
27 January:Prime Minister Johnson tells the House of Commons it will not be possible for schools to return in England after February half-term, but that he is hopeful it can begin to happen from 8 March. A final decision will depend on meeting vaccination targets, and schools will get two weeks notice before returning.
29 January:Education policy experts have called for schoolchildren in England to be allowed to repeat a year because of the school time they have missed during the pandemic.The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (All Tiers and Self-Isolation) (England) (Amendment) Regulations 2021comes into force at 5.00pm, levying fines of 800 on anyone attending a house party with over fifteen people and allowing police to access track and trace data.
30 January:Health bosses in Nottinghamshire have apologised after Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Clinical Commissioning Group sent out letters to critically vulnerable children inviting them for COVID vaccinations.
31 January:Dr Susan Hopkins, head of strategy at Public Health England, says England's lockdown should be eased very slowly, very cautiously.
1 February:Health Secretary Matt Hancockconfirms that around 80,000 residents over the age of 16 in areas of Surrey, London, Kent, Hertfordshire, Southport and Walsall are to be asked to take tests for the South African COVID-19 variantafter 11 cases were identified that could not be linked to travel.NHS Englandconfirms that every older care home resident in England has been offered a COVID vaccine.
2 February:Figures published by the Department for Education show that 1.2 million school pupils (roughly 15of the school population) were at school on 28 January, a rise from 14the previous week. The increase in numbers comes from primary pupils and those attending special schools.Health Secretary Matt Hancocktells the House of Commons people living in areas singled out for enhanced testing for the South African COVID variant should get tested and stay at home unless it is essential to go out. Hancock also tells Parliament that Liverpool and Bristol are also areas of interest for new variants.
3 February:Hampshire Constabularyand Sussex Policehave issued a Community Protection Noticeagainst a 30-year-old woman prohibiting her from visiting hospitals in Hampshire and Sussex without an appointment after she filmed empty hospital corridors and posted the footage online.
4 February:It is reported that teaching staff in London have been able to book and receive COVID vaccinations meant for health workers after a link to the booking site was forwarded to them via WhatsApp.
5 February:Police in Sheffield issue 34,000 worth of fines following a student party involving 150 people at a halls of residence.
6 February:Fourteen adults are fined a collective total of more than 11,000 after attending a first birthday party, Nottinghamshire Police have confirmed.Testing for the South African COVID variantbegins in Worcestershire after cases were discovered there with no apparent link to international travel.
7 February:Companies that employ over 50 people and whose employees cannot work from home are now eligible for lateral flow tests. The tests had previously only been available to firms with a workforce of 250 or more.
8 February:Heavy snow brings disruption to the vaccination process, with centres in the South East and East Anglia forced to close temporarily because of the adverse weather.Sir Kevan Collins, England's newly appointed Education Recovery Commissioner, says that school pupils will need extra hours of learning, sport, music and drama to make up for education missed because of the pandemic.Deputy Chief Medical Officer Jonathan Van-Tamurges people aged 70 and over who have not received a COVID-19 vaccination to contact the NHS without delay.Surge testing is to be introduced to parts of Manchester after four cases of a mutated version of the B17 strainwere found in two unconnected households in the city.
9 February:Head teachers leaders have warned against giving school pupils longer hours and shorter holidays as a way of catching up with missed education.Jonathan Van-Tam, England's Deputy Chief Medical Officer, warns people against booking summer holidays abroad in 2021, suggesting the more elaborate your plans are for summer holidays... the more you are stepping into making guesses about the unknown.
10 February:Four councils in England – Eastbourne, Bexley, Luton and Peterborough – are being given emergency funding to balance their books, Communities Secretary Robert Jenrickannounces. Jenrick says that while COVID is to blame for the financial situation of some of the councils, others are in their predicament because of very poor management.
11 February:Office for National Statisticsfigures show that 30,296 of the 50,888 COVID patients who died in England between January and November 2020 had a disability.A new booking system is launched for the hotel quarantine scheme, but taken down again within minutes because of a minor technical issue.Figures published by NHS Englandindicate that in December 2020, 224,205 people had been waiting for 12 months or longer for routine hospital treatment, the highest number since April 2008.
12 February:The deadline to buy a property under the Help to Buyequity loans scheme is extended until the end of May amid concerns 16,000 sales could be at risk because of the COVID crisis.Sir Simon Stevens, the Chief Executive of NHS England, says England is on course to offer the top four priority groups their first COVID vaccine by the target date of 15 February.
13 February:The leaders of the Parliamentary COVID Recovery Grouphave written to Prime Minister Boris Johnson urging him to lift all COVID restrictions by the end of April.A case of South African variant COVIDis discovered in the Hampshire village of Bramley, requiring all residents over the age of 16 to participate in surge testing.Heathrow Airportsays there are significant gapsin the hotel quarantine scheme scheduled to begin on 15 February.Prime Minister Boris Johnsonsays he is optimistiche will be able to set out cautiousplans for reopening society later in the month.
14 February:Foreign Secretary Dominic Raabrejects calls by the COVID Recovery Group to give a date for when restrictions will be eased.
15 February:A study conducted at the University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trustfinds a lower take up of the vaccine among ethnic minority staff, with a 70.9take up among white staff, compared to 58.5of South Asian staff and 36.8of black staff.Trade unions have expressed their concern that patchyfinancial support for people self-isolating because of COVID-19 is leaving many facing financial hardship.The Managed Quarantine Service begins: travellers entering the UK from or via red listcountries must pay for 11 nights in a designated hotel.People aged 65–69 and those aged 16–64 classed as clinically vulnerable are invited to book their COVID vaccinations as the programme is expanded beyond the top four priority groups.
16 February:West Midlands Policeconfirm that four passengers arriving in the UK have been fined 10,000 for failing to declare their visit to a red listcountry.Surge testing  for the South African COVID variantis to be expanded in Surrey, Norfolk and Southampton, while testing for a mutation of the Kent variantwill be expanded in Manchester.An extra 1.7 million people are expected to be asked to join the 2.3 million already shielding from COVID-19 after the development of a new model that looks at other factors in addition to health, such as ethnicity, weight and deprivation. At least half of these extra people are yet to receive COVID vaccinations so will be prioritised for inoculation.
17 February:A woman from Scarborough, North Yorkshire, who deliberately coughed at police officers investigating a breach of COVID rules is sentenced to four months imprisonment by the town's magistrates.Anne Longfield, the Children's Commissioner for England, calls for the government to focus on vulnerable children in plans to build back betterafter the pandemic.Prime Minister Boris Johnsonsays England's lockdown strategy will be led by data not dates.
18 February:A man in his 30s with no underlying health conditions is offered a vaccine under the extremely clinically vulnerable category after an administrative error gave him a BMIreading of 28,000. The error, made by NHS Liverpool Clinical Commissioning Group, had meant the man's height was incorrectly recorded as 6.2cm rather than 6ft 2in.Data from NHS Englandsuggests that 3 in 10 care home staff are yet to be vaccinated against COVID-19 despite being in one of the top priority groups.Imperial College London's React study has indicated COVID-19 infections in England have fallen by two-thirds since January, with an 80drop in London.
19 February:A joint statement released by the UK's teaching unions suggests it would be recklessto reopen all schools for pupils in England on 8 March.
20 February:As part of plans to ease lockdown restrictions, care home residents will be allowed one visitor indoors from 8 March. They are asked not to hug or kiss, but hand holding will be permitted, and visitors must provide a negative COVID test and wear PPE during the visit.
21 February:The organiser of a church group meeting that took place in a car park in Nottinghamshire is fined 10,000 by Nottinghamshire Policefor breach of COVID regulations.
22 February:A mass testing programme is announced for all secondary schools in England, with home testing carried out twice a week.Speaking in the House of Commons, Johnson describes the plan as cautious but irreversibleand something that will be led by data not dates, further adding that there is no credible route to a zero-Covid Britain nor indeed a zero-Covid world.Prime Minister Boris Johnsonunveils a four-step plan for ending coronavirus restrictions in England by 21 June. Subject to four tests on vaccines, infection rates and new variants being met, the plan will include the following:Legal limits on social contact to be lifted by 21 June:Two households will be able to mix indoors, with the rule of six applying to pub settings from 17 May:Non-essential shops, hairdressers, gyms and outdoor hospitality will resume on 12 April:Outdoor gatherings of up to six people or two households will resume from 29 March, along with grassroots sports:Schools and colleges will reopen on 8 March, with outdoor schools activities alloweduniversities will return at a later time:
24 February:The organisers of the Reading and Leeds Festivalssay they are confidentthe event can go ahead in 2021 following the announcement of the easing of lockdown restrictions in England.Education Secretary Gavin Williamsonannounces 700m of spending to help pupils catch up with missed study, saying that no child should have their prospects blighted by the pandemic.
25 February:The exams watchdog Ofqualconfirms the results for GCSEs and A Levels whose exams are cancelled because of COVID-19 will be decided by schools using a combination of teacher assessment, coursework and exams. Exam assessments will be available if required but will not be conducted under exam conditions, while results will be published earlier in August than usual to allow time for appeals.
26 February:Research at Addenbrooke's Hospitalin Cambridge, suggests the Pfizer–BioNTech vaccinehelps to slow the spread of COVID as well as preventing illness.
28 February:The families of schoolchildren are to be offered two free rapid COVID tests per week under plans to reopen schools in England.
1 March:Two million people aged 60–63 begin receiving letters inviting them to book a COVID vaccination through the national booking service.
3 March:London woman Sarah Everardis murdered by police officer Wayne Couzens under the pretext of COVID regulations. Couzens is later arrested and sentenced to life in prison.Jamila Azad, a Labour Party councillor in Oxfordshire, is suspended by her party after claiming on social media to have received a COVID-19 vaccine from a private doctor.She subsequently has the party's whipwithdrawn.Chancellor Rishi Sunakunveils the 2021 budget, which includes 1bn of funding for 45 areas of England to aid in their recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.
4 March:People living in the TS19 postcode areaof Stockton-on-Teesare urged to get tested for COVID-19 after evidence of the South African variantwas found there.
5 March:The BBC reports that some people with asthma are being refused priority vaccination status if they have not recently been to hospital.
6 March:The actor Laurence Foxannounces plans to run for Mayor of Londonin the forthcoming electionon a platform of lifting lockdown measures a month earlier than planned.People aged 56–59 begin receiving letters inviting them to book a COVID-19 vaccine. Over 18 million people in England have had their first vaccine, roughly a third of the population.
8 March:The network of NHS Nightingale hospitalsare to close from April, it is announced, with the hospitals in London and Sunderland remaining open as vaccination centres.Concerns are raised that secondary school pupils could be incorrectly told they have COVID after the government says that a positive test done at school can not be overridden by a better quality lab test.People wishing to travel overseas are required to complete a Declaration to Traveldocument to prove they are authorised to travel.
10 March:Since the return of schools in England, reports have emerged of children being asked to self-isolate following incorrect positive Rapid COVID test results which are later proven to be wrong by a PCR test giving a negative result. Parents have warned the situation is ruiningthe return to school, while experts argue children finding themselves in this situation are being unfairly punished.
11 March:Health Secretary Matt Hancockannounces that homeless people and those sleeping rough will be prioritised for COVID vaccines alongside those aged between 16 and 64 with underlying health conditions.A further four cases of the Brazilian variant COVIDare found in England, three in South Gloucestershire and one in Bradford. All are linked to previous cases identified in the UK.
12 March:Students at the University of Manchesterhold a vote of no confidence on Vice-Chancellor Nancy Rothwell'sleadership of the university over the response to the Covid-19 pandemicthe vote passed with 89in favour.
16 March:School attendance figures for the first week of the return of schools in England show attendance to be almost at pre-pandemic levels, with 95of pupils at primary school and 89at secondary school.
17 March:A letter from NHS Englandto local health organisations warns of a significant reduction in the weekly supplyof COVID vaccines from the end of March. Health Secretary Matt Hancockdescribes the correspondence as a standardletter, though it is reported fewer AstraZeneca vaccinations will be available than anticipated.People in England aged 50 and over are now invited to book their COVID vaccination.
18 March:Prime Minister Boris Johnsonconfirms he will receive his first vaccination the following day, and urges people who are invited to get a vaccine to do so.
20 March:Thousands of people attend an anti-lockdown march in London, at which 33 arrests are made, mainly for breaches of COVID regulations.
23 March:The stepsregulationsare published to coincide with the end of the stay at homeorder on 29 March. Measures include a 5,000 fine for unapproved travel outside England.
24 March:Prime Minister Boris Johnsonsays that pubgoers could be asked to provide a vaccine certificate by landlords, but that whether to do so would be left up to individual publicans.
26 March:The UK government announces that shops in England will be able to apply for permission to trade from 7am to 10pm from Mondays to Saturdays when non-essential retailers reopen on 12 April.
27 March:Rapid home testing kits are to be offered to companies in England with more than 10 employees from 6 April, and where it is not possible to perform on-site testing.Addressing the Conservative Party's virtual spring forum, Prime Minister Boris Johnsonhas said that despite a surge of COVID cases in Europe, there is nothing the UK's data to dissuade him from continuing along our roadmap to freedom.
28 March:Culture Secretary Oliver Dowdensays the government's plans to ease lockdown measures are on track and the last thing in the worldit wants is another lockdown, but that dates could be delayed if the situation deteriorates.
29 March:Movement restrictions are loosened by the first phase of the Stepsregulations, allowing two households or six people to meet outside. Weddings with up to six people are also permitted again. Prime Minister Boris Johnsonurges people to be cautions as COVID remains a threat.
31 March:People are urged to exercise caution following two days of extremely warm weather that have coincided with the easing of lockdown restrictions in England, and resulted in people descending on parks and beaches.
1 April:UKHospitalitycriticises new rules in place for pubs, bars and restaurants when they reopen on 12 April that will require everybody to sign in while limiting visits to the bar to one person from each group. UKHospitality says it will place extra burdens on pubs and staff, and may discourage people from visiting hospitality venues.
2 April:Police break up a Good Fridayservice at Christ the King RC Church on London's Balham High Road following breaches of COVID rules, such as people not socially distancing or wearing face coverings. A video of officers addressing the congregation is posted online.Campaigners launch legal action against the UK government over guidelines that ban care home residents over the age of 65 from taking trips outside the home.
3 April:The UK government confirms that a COVID passport systemwill be trialled at a comedy evening at Liverpool's Hot Water Comedy Clubon 16 April and continue at other events through to mid-May, while a traffic lightsystem will indicate the level of risk posed by different countries once foreign travel returns.The UK government announces that care home residents will be allowed two regular visitors indoors from 12 April, while babies and children will also be allowed. Visitors will be required to provide a negative COVID test and wear PPE during the visit.
4 April:A 2021 FA Cup Semi-Final match on 18 April, the Carabao Cup Finalon 25 April and the 2021 FA Cup Finalon 15 May will all be trialled with spectators as part of plans for the return of large events, with the games attended by 4,000, 8,000 and 21,000 respectively. The matches may also be part of trials for the COVID passport scheme.
5 April:Prime Minister Boris Johnsonconfirms that pubs, restaurants, hairdressers, gyms and non-essential shops can reopen from Monday 12 April.Everybody in England is to be given access to two free rapid flow tests each week from Friday 9 April.
9 April:Transport Secretary Grant Shappssays that people in England can start thinking about taking foreign holidays in summer 2021, but that the cost of COVID tests needs to be driven down.Philippines, Pakistan, Kenya and Bangladesh are added to the redlistof countries from where travel to England is banned, with travellers refused entry if they have visited those countries in the preceding ten days.
11 April:Addressing the congregation of Christ the King RC Church following Sunday Mass, one of the Met Police officers who broke up a Good Friday service says that the police deeply regret the hurt caused by their actions.
12 April:Surge testing is implemented in south London following the discovery of a significant cluster of South African variant COVID.The outbreak is believed to stem from an individual who returned from Africa in February. The areas affected by the outbreak are still allowed to relax COVID rules.
13 April:The UK government says that students will be allowed to return to university campuses in England no earlier than 17 May.Rollout of the Moderna COVID vaccinebegins in England.
14 April:Care home staff in England may be required to have a COVID vaccine under new plans being considered by the UK government.Surge testing is extended to the Southwark and Barnet areas of London amid concerns about the South African COVID variant.
15 April:Figures from NHS Englandindicate that 4.7 million people were waiting for routine operations and procedures in February 2021, the largest waiting list numbers since records began in 2007. Of those, 388,000 had waited for more than a year, while two million operations took place through January and February 2021, while the health service was under pressure because of the pandemic.
18 April:A gig in Manchester's Platt Fields Parkdue to be given by rapper AJ Tracyis cancelled shortly before it is scheduled to start because of the volume of people who turn up. Its organisers are subsequently fined 10,000 for a breach of COVID restrictions.NHS Providershave warned that the huge backlog of operations built up during the pandemic could take five years to clear.On the day the FA Cup semi-final between Leicester City and Southampton is held at London's Wembley Stadium as a pilot event with 4,000 spectators, it is confirmed that an outdoor gig will be held in Liverpool's Sefton Parkon 2 May with near-normal conditions. 5,000 people will be allowed to attend the event without face coverings or social distancing rules, but must provide a negative COVID test beforehand.
23 April:Philip Hollobone, MP for Ketteringtells the House of Commons there is widespread outrageover Northamptonshire Police's decision not to charge anyone in connection with a funeral in Kettering attended by 150 people in November 2020. A man was originally charged with breaching COVID regulations over the funeral, but the charges have since been dropped.
24 April:An estimated 10,000 people attend an anti-lockdown protest at London's Hyde Parkeight police officers are injured while trying to disperse protestors and five arrests are made.
26 April:Organisers of the Tramlines Festivalat Sheffield's Hillsborough Park, confirm the event will go ahead from 23–25 July, with 35,000 people expected to attend each day.With around two thirds of people in England aged 45–49 having received their first COVID vaccine, the programme is rolled out to those aged 44, roughly another half a million people.
27 April:The City of London Corporationannounces plans to convert unused office space into housing in a bid to revitalise the area following the COVID crisis, with plans for 1,500 homes by 2030.Adults aged 42 and over are invited to book their first COVID vaccine.
29 April:Sir Simon Stevensconfirms he will leave the post of Chief Executive of NHS Englandat the end of July and become a peer in the House of Lords.Figures published by NHS Test and Traceshow COVID COVID infection rates have fallen to their lowest in England since September 2020.
30 April:Surge testing takes place in parts of east London following the discovery of two cases of South African variant COVID-19.Clubbers have gathered at a venue in Liverpool for the first nightclub event to be staged as part of trials for mass gatherings. The two-day event is expected to be attended by 6,000 ticketholders who are required to take COVID tests before and after attending, but can attend without face coverings and observing social distancing requirements.Adults aged 40 and over are invited to book their first COVID vaccination.
1 May:Government scientist Professor Sir Mark Walporturges people to be patientahead of the next planned relaxation of COVID rules on 17 May.
2 May:Bristol's annual Grand Iftar community event is held online due to the coronavirus pandemic. The meal, which represents the breaking of fast at sunset during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, is held in the city's Eastondistrict and attended by 6,000 people.
3 May:Prime Minister Boris Johnsonsuggests there is a good chanceEngland's 1m social distancing rule can be scrapped from 21 June.It is reported the government is planning to lift the 30 people limit at funerals from 17 May, meaning an unlimited number of mourners can attend so long as they can socially distance safely. The number permitted at weddings will rise from 15 to 30 on the same day.
4 May:Care home residents are permitted to leave their residence for low-risk trips such as walks or garden visits without the need to self-isolate for 14 days afterwards.
5 May:A Sheffield schoolgirl loses a High Court case to prevent her school from requiring or encouragingpupils to wear a face maskshe had argued that being required to wear masks risked serious harmto children's physical and mental health.
7 May:The restored shrine of St. Amphibalusat St Albans Cathedralis to include a memento of the COVID-19 pandemic with the addition of a carved figure wearing a maskthe shrine's restoration was delayed by the pandemic.
10 May:England records a day without any COVID related deaths.Johnson also confirms that face coverings will no longer be required in secondary schools in England from 17 May.Prime Minister Boris Johnsonconfirms the single biggest stepin the relaxing of restrictions for England on 17 May, but urges people to exercise caution and common sense. From that date indoor hospitality will reopen and people will be able to hug again.
11 May:A Freedom of Informationrequest discloses that eleven Greater Manchester Policeofficers were fined for breaches of COVID regulations during the first twelve months of the pandemic.The UK government confirms that from 17 May people in England who have had both COVID vaccines will be able to use the NHS appas a proof of vaccinationa paper version will also be available by calling 119.
12 May:Hospitality sector firms in the Greater Manchester town of Boltonexpress their concern at the easing of restrictions as the area experiences a fresh COVID surge. It has one of the highest rates of the Indian variant among its unvaccinated young population.
13 May:Roughly a million people in England aged 38 and 39 become eligible for their first COVID vaccine, with pregnant women directed to vaccination centres offering the Pfizerof Modernavaccines.
14 May:As the rules regarding face coverings for school pupils in England are relaxed from 17 May, pupils in the north west are advised to continue wearing them until 21 June amid concerns about Indian variant COVID.The Army is to be deployed in Bolton and Blackburn with Darwen to help with the distribution of COVID tests.In order to help tackle the Indian variant, the gap between first and second vaccinations is narrowed to eight weeks for people in the top nine priority groups.Prime Minister Boris Johnsonconfirms the next round of relaxation of the coronavirus restrictions in England will go ahead on 17 May, but that the increase in numbers of Indian variant COVIDcould pose serious disruptionto the easing of restrictions on 21 June. He further suggests some serious choicesmay be required if the variant is found to be significantlymore transmissible.
16 May:Speaking on BBC One's The Andrew Marr Show, Health Secretary Matt Hancocksays a local lockdown in Bolton has not been ruled out as a way of tackling the rise in cases of Indian variant COVID.
17 May:Over 6,000 vaccinations have been carried out in the Bolton area over the preceding weekend as health officials seek to control the spread of Indian variant COVID.Restrictions are relaxed allowing indoor hospitality to reopen with groups of up to six people. Bingo halls also reopen.
18 May:People in England aged 37 become eligible for their first COVID vaccine.
19 May:With 2,967 cases of Indian variant COVIDnow confirmed in the UK, surge testing and vaccination is expanded to a further six areas – Bedford, Burnley, Hounslow, Kirklees, Leicesterand North Tyneside.The vaccination programme is extended to those aged 36 living in England.
20 May:People aged 34 and 35 are invited to book their first COVID vaccine.
21 May:Public Health Englandofficials are investigating a new COVID variant which has presented 49 cases in the Yorkshire and Humberarea.
22 May:England's vaccination programme is extended to people aged 32 and 33.
26 May:People in England aged 30 and 31 are invited to book their first COVID vaccine.
27 May:A coroner is to determine whether the death of BBC radio presenter Lisa Shawmay have been complicated by her receiving the Oxford–AstraZeneca vaccineafter she was treated for blood clots within days of having her first vaccination.Pupils at four schools in Kirklees, West Yorkshire are being offered surge testing amid rising cases of Indian variant COVIDin the area.Prime Minister Boris Johnsonsays there is nothing in the data to suggest the final lifting of restrictions in England cannot go ahead on 21 June.
31 May:A pop-up vaccination centre is set up for the day at Twickenham Stadiumafter NHS North West Londonhad 15,000 doses of Pfizer vaccineto spare. The centre breaks with the national convention by offering anyone over the age of 18 a walk in vaccination appointment. Demand is high and gates are closed at 6.45pm.As England's ban on evictions expires, the Joseph Rowntree Foundationwarns that as many as a million people face losing their homes in the coming months400,000 householders have already been received, or been told they will receive, eviction notices, the charity says.
1 June:The UK records 0 deaths from Covid-19 over a 24 hour period for the first time since March 2020
2 June:The UK government announces its plan to help pupils in England catch up on missed education. The scheme is allocated 1.4bn over three years, but is criticised as a damp squibby headteachers. Prime Minister Boris Johnsonpromises there will be more money to follow. Sir Kevan Collinsresigns as Education Recovery Commissioner, stating the funding falls far short of what is needed.Prime Minister Boris Johnsonsays there is still nothing in the datato suggest England's 21 June date for lifting restrictions should be delayed.
3 June:Bedford Borough Councilannounces that door-to-door COVID testing will begin over the coming weekendBedford has the fifth highest number of COVID cases in the UK with 158 cases per 100,000.
5 June:A pop-up vaccination centre is opened for the day at Belmont Health Centre in Stanmore, Harrow, offering anyone over the age of 18 the chance to have a COVID vaccine.Surge testing begins in Bradford amid concerns about the spread of Indian variant COVIDin the area.Media outlets, including LBC, report that people aged over 40 are set to be offered their second COVID vaccination after eight weeks rather than twelve in order to help keep on track the 21 June date for relaxing restrictions.
6 June:Health Secretary Matt Hancocktells Sky Newsthat Indian variant COVIDis 40more transmissible, but confirms that two vaccine doses work just as effectively against it as previous variants.He also says the government is absolutely opento delaying the next round of lifting restrictions past 21 June.On the topic of care home patients, he rejects claims made by Dominic Cummingsthat he said they were being tested for COVID before being discharged from hospital and returned to residential homes, but that they wouldbe tested once adequate capacity was in place.
8 June:Greater Manchester and parts of Lancashire are to receive a strengthened package of supportthat includes military support and support for COVID testing in schools in order to tackle Indian variant COVID. The advice for those living in the area has also changed, with people urged to meet up outdoors and avoid travelling to different areas, though the UK government stresses this is not a local lockdown.England's vaccination programme is extended to adults aged 25–29.
10 June:Data from NHS Englandshows that hospital waiting lists have exceeded five million for the first time.
11 June:The Association of Directors of Public Healthhas urged the delay of the 21 June easing of restrictions in order to stop us going backwards.It is subsequently reported the government is considering a four week delay to the 21 June plans.
12 June:A pop-up COVID vaccination centre is held in Sheffield, for anyone over the age of 18, and is quickly oversubscribed, requiring health officials to ask people to stop coming.
14 June:Prime Minister Boris Johnsonannounces that England's relaxation of coronavirus restrictions planned for 21 June will be delayed by four weeks, until 19 July. The cap on wedding parties will be removed though.By then it is planned that every adult will have been offered a first COVID vaccine, with at least three quarters having been fully vaccinated.Leading figures in the live music and theatre sectors describe the delay as a hammer blowto their industries.The hospitality industry urge the government to provide urgent financial help for the sector.
15 June:People aged 23 and 24 become eligible to book their first COVID vaccination.
16 June:It is reported COVID vaccinations are to become compulsory for care home workers in England.This is subsequently confirmed by Health Secretary Matt Hancock.The vaccine rollout opens to those aged 21 and 22 in England.
18 June:Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeonannounces a travel ban between Scotland and parts of Greater Manchester and Salford from Monday 21 June because of rising COVID cases in the area, a move that sparks anger from Mayor of Greater ManchesterAndy Burnham, who accuses the Scottish Government of hypocrisy.Roughly 1.5 million people aged 18, 19 and 20 become eligible for their first COVID vaccination.A total of 721,469 bookings are made during the first day of the programme being open to everyone over 18.
19 June:More pop-up vaccination centres are opened across England in a bid to offer every adult in England a first vaccine by 19 July.
21 June:Three police officers are injured and fourteen people arrested at an anti-lockdown protest in Central London.Several hundred people celebrate the Summer solsticeat Stonehengedespite official advice to avoid doing so because of COVID restrictions.Prime Minister Boris Johnsonsays that things are looking goodfor the lifting of restrictions on 19 July.
23 June:Education Secretary Gavin Williamsonsuggests GCSE and E Level exams in England are likely to face adjustmentsin 2022 to factor in time lost because of the COVID crisis.
25 June:A four day pop-up COVID vaccination clinic begins at Arsenal Stadium, with Arsenal F.C.offering those who attend a free behind-the-scenes tour of the stadium.A study of nine pilot events collectively attended by a total of 58,000 people has found no major transmission to have occurred, with just 28 COVID cases detected.
26 June:Thousands of people attend anti-lockdown protests in London.The Grab a Jabinitiative sees hundreds of venues, including stadiums, shopping centres and theatres, turned into temporary vaccination centres in order to increase the number of people receiving COVID vaccinations.
28 June:Health Secretary Sajid Javidtells MPs the UK government can see no reason to go beyondthe target datefor lifting restrictions in England on 19 July, and that although COVID-19 cases have risen the number of related deaths have not.
29 June:Scotland's Health Secretary, Humza Yousaf, announces that the ban on non-essential travel between Scotland and the north west of England will be lifted from midnight.A study has found the COVID death rate in Greater Manchesterhas been 25higher than the rest of England throughout the pandemic.Ministers suggest the COVID control system for schools in England that sees groups of pupils required to self-isolate following a single positive test could be scrapped in the autumn in favour of daily testing.
30 June:Education Secretary Gavin Williamsonsays he wants to see an end to the bubble system in schools that sees whole groups of pupils sent home to self-isolate after an increase in the number of pupils unable to attend school.
1 July:Prime Minister Boris Johnsonannounces he will set out the final step of the roadmap for lifting restrictions in England in the next few days, and says he hopes that life will return to as close as possible to its pre-pandemic status.
3 July:As COVID cases rise again, the British Medical Associationcalls for some COVID restrictions to remain in place in England beyond 19 July.
6 July:England Cricket is required to name a replacement squad for its One Day Internationalseries with Pakistan after the original team have to self-isolate because of positive COVID tests among their members.More than 60,000 people are allowed to attend England's Euro 2020semi-final match with Denmark at Wembley Stadium, meaning the stadium is at 75capacity.
8 July:A study by Imperial College Londonattributes a faster rise in COVID cases among men over the preceding two weeks to fans watching Euro 2020.Hospitals in Leeds postpone planned elective surgeries due to dealing with a rise in COVID cases.The UK government confirms that fully vaccinated UK residents arriving into England from amber list countries will no longer be required to quarantine after 19 July, but will still be required to pay for COVID tests.
10 July:Ministers are reported to be considering exempting fully vaccinated NHS staff in England from having to self isolate if they are contacted by contact tracing.
12 July:Public examinations for secondary school students are to resume in 2022, with pupils likely to have advanced warning of exam topics.Health Secretary Sajid Javidand Prime Minister Boris Johnsonconfirm almost all COVID restrictions will be removed in England on 19 July.
13 July:A snapshot of school attendance figures from one day during the previous week shows that almost 1.5 million pupils were absent due to self-isolation.The House of Commons votes 319–246 to approve legislation requiring the compulsory vaccination of care home staff in England from October 2021.Mayor of London Sadiq Khanconfirms that face coverings will continue to be mandatory on London's transport network after 19 July.
15 July:Pavement dining and outdoor pint licensing in England is to continue for a further year to help the hospitality industry.
17 July:Transport for Londonsays that services on the Metropolitan linebetween Aldgateand Amershamhave been suspended due to a staff shortage caused after they received pingalerts from the NHS COVID-19 app. services on the Piccadilly lineand District lineare also affected.The 2021 Challenge Cup Finalbetween Castleford Tigersand St Helensis held at Wembley Stadiumin front of a crowd of 45,000 spectators, half the stadium capacity.Children aged between two and 16, adults aged over 50 and those in at risk groups will be offered a flu vaccine over the coming winter to help tackle both COVID and influenza.
19 July:With nightclubs allowed to reopen, the UK government announces that people wishing to enter nightclubs and other venues with large gatherings will need to be fully vaccinated from the end of September 2021.The final stage of COVID restrictions are lifted in England, allowing nightclubs to reopen and abolishing social distancing rules, while the wearing of face coverings no longer required by law.
20 July:Official school attendance figures for England show that 1.7 million pupils (23.3) were absent from school during the week of 12–16 July. Over a million of those absent were off school for COVID-related reasons, but only 47,000 of those had actually tested positive for the virus.
21 July:NHS workers in England are offered a 3pay rise in recognition of unique impact of the pandemicon them.Data released by the Care Quality Commissionshows that 39,000 of the people who died after testing positive for COVID-19 in England between 10 April 2020 and 31 March 2021 were care home residents.A shortage of workers caused by the self-isolation pingdemicis reported to be affecting local authorities' ability to carry out refuse collections in some areas of England.
26 July:A survey by Public Health Englandindicate that 40of adults in England gained weight during lockdown, with the average weight gain being half a stone (equivalent to 3kg).
29 July:It is reported that some nightclubs in England have begun to ask clubgoers to produce an NHS COVID Pass(proof of vaccination) before being allowed entry.
31 July:The BBC reports that ministers are no longer planning to make full vaccination compulsory for university lecturers in England.
6 August:Englands R numberis estimated to be between 0.8 and 1.1, a fall from the previous week when it was estimated to be between 1.1 and 1.4.
7 August:Students at the University of Sussexwho are fully vaccinated are being offered the chance to win 5,000, with ten prizes on offer.
12 August:Figures show that a record number of people are waiting for NHS hospital treatment in England, with a total of 5.45 million on waiting lists.
15 August:The UK government confirms 23 August as the date by which all 16 and 17-year-olds will in England will have been offered a COVID vaccine, or the chance to book an appointment.
17 August:Six of the UK's teaching unions have written to Education Secretary Gavin Williamsonto call for urgent action for better ventilation in schools amid concerns about a rise in COVID cases when pupils return to the classroom for the new academic year.
19 August:Official figures show that two areas of Newquay in Cornwall had of the highest COVID rates in England during the week ending 13 August, along with Yarborough near Grimsby in Lincolnshire.
24 August:As COVID cases rise in Cornwall, the county's tourist board asks people to stay away from the area unless they have pre-booked holidays.
25 August:Data from Public Health Englandindicate that the rate of COVID cases in South West England is by farhighest among those aged 15–24.
26 August:The latest figures from Public Health Englandindicate COVID cases are on the rise again in most areas of England, apart from London and Yorkshire and the Humber, where they have fallen.NHS organisations in England have been told to prepare for a possible extension of the COVID vaccination programme to 12–15-year-olds.But the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisationis reported to have concerns about the effect of the COVID vaccine on other vaccines administered to young children.
27 August:Scientists advising the UK government believe it is highly likelythere will be high levels of COVID in schools in England by the end of September.Following an uptick in the number of COVID cases in the south west, Cornwall, the Isles of Scilly, Devon, Plymouth and Torbay are to receive extra help from the Department of Health and Social Careto help curb the increase. This will include mandatory face coverings for school and college students when gathering in communal areas.
28 August:The Royal National Lifeboat Institutesays that lifeguards have been withdrawn from two beaches in Lincolnshire after one of their number tested positive for COVID.
2 September:As schools prepare to return for the new academic year and concerns mount about their potential base as a spread for COVID, Dr Yvonne Doyle, medical director of Public Health Englandhas said schools are not driversor hubsof COVID infection.
5 September:Vaccines Minister Nadhim Zahawiconfirms that v will be required for nightclubs and other indoor venues in England from the end of September.
6 September:The UK government confirms the NHS in England will get an extra 5.4bn over the coming six months to help deal with the backlog caused by COVID, and to help with its response to the pandemic.
7 September:Addressing the House of Commons, Prime Minister Boris Johnsonannounces a new Health and Social Care Taxworth 12bn designed to deal with the backlog caused by COVID and improve social care in England.
8 September:Official figures have revealed that people in the north of England were 17more likely to die from COVID-related illnesses than those in the rest of the country.
9 September:Figures show that 5.6 million people were on NHS England's waiting lists in July, while the average waiting time for an ambulance during a life threatening call was eight and a half minutes in Augustthe target is seven minutes.
12 September:Speaking on BBC One's The Andrew Marr Show, Health Secretary Sajid Javidconfirms plans to require proof of vaccination for nightclubs and other venues in England have been scrapped. 10 Downing Street says the plans will be kept in reserve.
14 September:Boris Johnson discusses plans to emphasize vaccine boosters and vaccination of children 12–15 as part of efforts for handling the autumn and winter months. Johnson left open the possibility of plan Bmeasures (which would include reinstating mask mandates, and possibly mandating proof of vaccination for certain venues, bringing England in line with restrictions in the other Home Nations) in the event of another surge, aiming to avoid lockdown.Officials at Northern Lincolnshire and Goole NHS Foundation Trustconfirm that patients at Grimsby Hospitalhave been forced to queue outside AampE due to high demand for services.
17 September:Manchester Unitedreleases figures for the 2020–21 football season indicating that losses it made at the turnstiles from physical attendances at matches were offset by money made from broadcasting.Al fresco dining is set to continue in central London, but may not do so in Soho, it is reported.
21 September:Staff at Cornwall's Eden Projectare given a wellbeing weekoff work as a thank you for their work during the pandemic.
24 September:Some schools in Corby and Kettering in Northamptonshire have brought back face mask requirements amid rising COVID cases in the area.England's R numberfalls slightly to between 0.8 and 1.0, down from 0.9 to 1.1 the previous week.
26 September:The Great Manchester Runis held, following its cancellation in 2020 due to COVID.
30 September:The UK government confirms that GCSE and A Level examination grades in England will be returned to pre-COVID levels over the next two years.Data shows the level of face-to-face GP appointments in England has changed little since the winter lockdown, with 58of appointments conducted in person during August 2021this compares with 54in January and a pre-COVID level of 80.
1 October:The UK government confirms that GCSE and A-level grades in England will be returned to pre-pandemic levels over the next two years following unusually high grades during 2020 and 2021. Public examinations for secondary school education will be held in 2022, but the option of teacher based assessment will remain open.
4 October:Parents of children aged 12–15 living in Northamptonshire, where COVID cases are high, are urged to get their children vaccinated.
5 October:The Vale Academyin Brigg, North Lincolnshire reintroduces bubbles due to high COVID cases in the area.Department for Education figures indicate the number of pupils absent from school in England rose by two thirds in the two weeks to 30 September, with 204,000 (2.5of school pupils) absent due to COVID-related reasons.
7 October:Schools in Cambridgeshire are asked to reintroduce compulsory face masks for pupils after health officials said that 50of recent COVID infections have been among those aged 0–17.
8 October:Figures released by the Office for National Statisticsfor the week ending 2 October show an increase in COVID infections in English secondary schools, with one in 14 believed to have the virus, up from one in 20 the week before. Nationally the rate has risen from one in 85 to one in 70, the rise having been driven by the secondary school increase.
11 October:Visiting is suspended at Withybush Hospitalin Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire, after a rise in COVID cases.
21 October:Greater Manchester has cancelled its eight council-run bonfires due to COVIDthe events normally attract around 100,000 attendees.The Royal Cornwall Hospitals Trustdeclares a critical incident because of the pressures it is facingthe previous day saw over 100 people waiting for Accident and Emergency treatment with 25 ambulances waiting outside.
24 October:New rules come into force allowing fully vaccinated travellers returning to England to take lateral flow tests instead of PCR tests.
31 October:Health officials from NHS Englandare to visit around 800 schools in an attempt to accelerate the vaccination programme for 12–15-year-oldsaround 600,000 people in that age group have already had the vaccine.
1 November:Cambridgeshire and Peterborough councils become enhanced response areas, with extra government support to tackle high COVID rates in the area. The support includes efforts to maximise vaccine rollout and is expected to be in place for five weeks.
2 November:Diwalicelebrations return to Leicester following their cancellation in 2020 because of COVID.
4 November:Birmingham's German Christmas Marketreturns after its cancellation in 2020. The event is smaller than in previous years, and Birmingham City Councilwarns it could change or close if COVID restrictions return.
5 November:England's R numberis estimated to be between 0.9 and 1.1, a fall from the same day the previous week when it was estimated to be between 1.1 and 1.3.
8 November:Doctors are expressing concern about the number of older people who have not taken up the offer of a booster vaccine, with as many as 20of those over 80 in the North East of England and North Cumbria yet to have the booster.
15 November:Two men from Rotherham, South Yorkshire, who fraudulently claimed 200,000 in emergency COVID funding by setting up bogus businesses then going into voluntary liquidation are banned from being company directors for thirteen and six years respectively.
18 November:UK Health Security Agencydata for the period up to 14 November indicates COVID cases in England are now highest among children aged 5–9.
22 November:People aged over 40 in England become eligible to book their COVID booster vaccination.
23 November:COVID advice is updated for England, where people are urged to take a lateral flow test if they expect to be in a high risk situationthat day, such as spending time in crowded and enclosed spacesand where there is limited fresh air.
30 November:Rules regarding face coverings in England and PCR tests for travellers arriving into the UK come into force as a measure to offset the new Omicron COVID variantdiscovered in Southern Africa.
29 November:Secondary school pupils in England are strongly advisedto wear face coverings in communal areas.
30 November:Prime Minister Johnson announces that by the end of January 2022, all adults in England over the age of 18 would be eligible to receive a vaccine booster.Rules regarding face coverings in England and PCR tests for travellers arriving into the UK come into force.
4 December:GP surgeries in England will be allowed to defer non-urgent health checks for over-75s in order to focus on providing the booster vaccine. The move is welcomed by doctors' leaders.
8 December:Prime Minister Johnson announces that plan Bmeasures would be implemented due to the threat of Omicron variant and to ensure a close to normalholiday season:From 15 December attendees of nightclubs and large events must produce an NHS COVID Pass to enter.From 13 December employees are being advised to work from home if possible.From 10 December the mask mandate is extended to cinemas, theatres and similar indoor venues.
30 December:The Welsh Governmentannounces that Wales will lend England four million lateral flow tests to help with the current shortage of tests being experienced by England.