1 January:Professors Chris Whittyand Jonathan Van-Tam, the respective Chief Medical Officer and Deputy Chief Medical officer for England, are both knighted in the 2022 New Year Honours. Also to be recognised with Honours are Dr Jenny Harries, chief executive of the UK Health Security Agency, and Dr June Raine, chief executive of the vaccines regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, who are both made dames.Although official events to celebrate New Year were cancelled in London, crowds gather to welcome in 2022. The fireworks display goes ahead as planned, but people are asked to stay away because of the risk of COVID.
2 January:The UK government announces that face masks are to be worn in schools in England when classes resume following the Christmas holiday.Ministers have said there is nothing in the data to suggest new COVID rules are needed for England. Health Minister Edward Argarurges cool, calm heads, while Steve Barclaysays there have been significant behaviour changeas a result of Plan B measures.
3 January:Figures produced by NHS Digitaland obtained by the Press Associationshow that thousands of people in England required hospital treatment during the lockdowns of 2020 and 2021 after undertaking activities such as DIY, remote work, cookery and dog walking.The Royal College of Nursingurges the UK government to take a more cautious approach as the Omicron variantcontinues to spread.A major incident is declared at four Lincolnshire hospitals due to staff shortages because of COVID.It is one of six NHS trusts where major incidents have been declared.A letter signed by Education Secretary Nadhim Zahawiadvises schools in England to prepare for staff absences by merging classes into larger groups, and to consider what it describes as flexibleteaching options.
5 January:At least ten hospital trusts in England have declared critical incidents due to COVID, with Manchester University NHS Foundation Trustbeing the latest to do so.Rules regarding PCR tests in England are to change from the following week, meaning anyone testing positive for COVID with a lateral flow test but who have no symptoms will no longer need to follow the test with a PCR testthey will still be required to self-isolate for seven days though.As figures suggest one in fifteen people in the UK had COVID on New Year's Eve, Prime Minister Boris Johnsonconfirms that Plan B measures in England will stay in place for a further three weeks.
6 January:A total of 356 passengers were handed 200 fines for not wearing face masks between 30 November and 21 December 2021, the Mayor of London confirms.Details of a review used by the UK government to reintroduce face masks in schools for England comes to light in which the evidence of their effectiveness is described as not conclusive.On the eve of changes to the rules regarding PCR tests for travellers to and from England, Transport Secretary Grant Shappsdescribes them as having outlived theirusefulnessbecause Omicron is now widespread and worldwide.
7 January:Around 200 military personnel have been deployed to help short-staffed hospitals and ambulance services in England.From 4am people in England who are fully vaccinated are no longer required to take a pre-departure COVID test before travelling abroad, while anyone arriving in England who has had both vaccines is not required to self-isolate while waiting for the results of a PCR test.
11 January:Data shows that 6.6of teachers in England, roughly one in 12, were absent from schools in England during the first week of the winter term.People in England without COVID symptoms no longer need a PCR test to confirm a positive lateral flow test following a change in the rules.
13 January:Almost one in three local authorities in England report they are having to ration care for elderly and disabled people because of Omicron variant-related absences.The number of people on hospital waiting lists in England reaches six million, with roughly one in 20 waiting for routine operations such as knee surgery for over a year.Health Secretary Sajid Javidconfirms the period of self-isolation in England following a positive COVID test is to be cut to five full days from Monday 17 January.
15 January:The Football Associationgrants Arsenal permission to postpone a north London derby match with Tottenham scheduled for the following day because Arsenal is unable to field a team due to absences from COVID, suspensions, injuries and players being away at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations.
17 January:Train operator Avanti West Coastreduces its services between London Eustonand Manchester Piccadillyfrom three trains per hour to one train per hour in a bid to make the service more reliable while its staff experience a high number of absences due. The revised timetable is scheduled to be in place until 25 February with a weekly review.Avanti West Coast, c2c, East Midlands Railwayand South Western Railwayall introduce emergency timetables in order to cope with staff shortages.
20 January:Several large employers, including banks, insurers and advertising companies, say they have made plans for their staff to return to the office following the UK government's decision to end remote workadvice in England with immediate effect.
21 January:The major incident declared in London in December by Mayor Sadiq Khanas Omicron cases spread in the city has been stood down.
22 January:The Royal College of GPsurges the UK government to extend the deadline for NHS staff in England to be vaccinated beyond 9 February in order to prevent a shortage of staff.
24 January:The UK and Scottish Governments announce that double vaccinated people arriving in England and Scotland will no longer be required to take COVID tests from 11 February.
25 January:Figures show that around one million children were absent from school in England on Thursday 20 January for COVID-related reasons.
27 January:Plan B measures are lifted in England bringing an end to the mask mandate, but a number of retailers, including Sainsbury's, Tesco, John Lewis, Waitrose and Morrisons will continue to encourage people to wear them, along with several rail operators.
28 January:A man has been fined 7,000 for repeatedly leaving his room at a quarantine hotel in April 2021 to smoke, even after his wife had tested positive for COVID.Special walk-in vaccination sessions have been held in Lincolnshire aimed at people with a phobia of needles.Some people in England who are at high risk from COVID say they have been left out of plans to give vulnerable patients quick access to treatments.
31 January:Children in England aged 5–11 and considered to be most at risk from being seriously ill with COVID become eligible for their first vaccine.Restrictions for care homes in England are relaxed. From this date there is no limit on the number of visitors residents can receive, while the period of self-isolation following a positive COVID test is cut from fourteen to ten days, and the protocol following an outbreak is now required for fourteen rather than twenty-eight days.Health Secretary Sajid Javidannounces the legal requirement for frontline NHS staff in England to be vaccinated by 1 April will be scrapped, saying the measure is no longer proportionate.
7 February:Prime Minister Boris Johnsonannounces what he describes as tough targetsto reduce the record NHS waiting lists in England.
8 February:Health Secretary Sajid Javidannounces plans to help reduce NHS waiting lists in England, but warns numbers will not begin to fall until 2024, and are likely to increase in the short term.
9 February:Prime Minister Boris Johnsontells MPs he hopes to bring all of England's domestic COVID rules to an end, including the requirement for those testing positive to self-isolate, later in the month providing the positive trend in the data continues. The measures are currently due to expire on 24 March.
11 February:Mark Hillary, a prominent financial donor to the University of Durham, withdraws his support over what he calls the university's ridiculous and ineffectiveCOVID rules that have left students as the final members of societyto be subjected to the rules.
13 February:Chris Hopson, chief executive of NHS Providers, describes UK government plans to reach 130of pre-COVID elective activity levels in England by 2024–25 as very stretching, and warns they may not be enough to prevent the number of people on waiting lists from growing.
15 February:Figures indicate the number of children being home-schooled in England has risen by 34since the start of the pandemic.
16 February:The number of patients in hospital with COVID-19 in England falls below 10,000 for the first time since December, with figures showing 9,804 on 16 February, the lowest number since 28 December 2021.England follows Wales and Scotland in announcing that children aged between five and eleven will be offered a low doseCOVID vaccine. Health Secretary Sajid Javidsays the rollout will be non-urgentand based on parental choice.
19 February:Downing Street confirms that all remaining COVID regulations for England are set to end in the coming days, including the legal requirement to self-isolate if symptomatic following a positive test.Figures show that around 50of people in Newcastle-upon-Tyne have had a booster vaccine, and 75have had the initial vaccine, prompting local Labourcouncillor for BlakelawOskar Avery to urge the city to get the momentum back.
21 February:Prime Minister Boris Johnsonconfirms that all domestic COVID measures in England will be lifted from Thursday 24 February. This includes the legal requirement to self-isolate and the 500 isolation payment for people on low incomes who are required to self-isolate, but COVID provisions for statutory sick pay will continue for a further month. Johnson also confirms that mass free COVID testing will stop on 1 April, after which it will be targeted at certain sections of society.
22 February:Headteachers have warned that the headlongrush to end COVID measures in schools could lead to a further disruption of children's education.Health Secretary Sajid Javiddefends plans to lift COVID measures in England, saying the time is right to do so.
24 February:The requirement for face masks to be worn on Transport for Londonservices is also removed.All domestic legal COVID restrictions are officially lifted in England.
1 March:The Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) serving Wiltshire, Swindon and Bath has expressed its concern at the low number of five to eleven-year-olds classed as clinically at risk taking up their offer of a COVID vaccine, with 4.7, or 250 out of 5,300 eligible children having received a vaccine.The UK government confirms the lifting of compulsory vaccines for care home workers in England from 15 March.
11 March:A report published by the House of Commons Education Select Committee highlights the devastatingimpact of England's school closures during the pandemic, which it says is leading to greater inequality, with Yorkshire and the Humber and the North East of England the most seriously affected areas.
15 March:The Cheltenham Festivalbegins, with crowds allowed to attend for the first time since 2020.A study has highlighted what the Royal College of Psychiatristshas described as the unprecedented demand for mental health services, with the number of referrals for specialist NHS mental health care reaching a record high in England by the end of 2021. Figures from NHS Digitalindicate some 4.3 million referrals had been made due to mental health issues by the end of that year.
18 March:The Health Protection (Coronavirus, International Travel and Operator Liability) (England) Regulations 2021, the last coronavirus-related legal restrictions in effect in England, are revoked.
21 March:NHS Englandlaunches its Spring Booster Programme, offering a booster vaccine to 600,000 people aged over 75, who are residents in a care home, and those aged over 12 considered to be medically vulnerable.
21 March:England's deputy chief medical officer, Professor Jonathan Van-Tam, is granted the freedom of his home town of Boston, Lincolnshire.NHS Englandlaunches its Spring Booster Programme, offering a booster vaccine to 600,000 people aged over 75, who are residents in a care home, and those aged over 12 considered to be medically vulnerable.
29 March:The UK government publishes the list of those in England who will still be eligible for free lateral flow tests from 1 April. They are as follows:People working in some high-risk settings, including care homes and prisons.Care home residentsPeople who are eligible for community COVID drug treatments because they are at higher risk of getting seriously illPatients in hospital, where a PCR test is required for their careNHS staff
31 March:monitoring of wastewater for fragments of the SARS-CoV-2 virus ceases.
2 April:Low-dose vaccines for COVID-19 become available for children aged five to 11 in England, with five million eligible. A second dose is recommended after 12 weeks.
5 April:Figures released by the UK government show the number of absences from school in England because of COVID are stabilising, with 179,000 pupils (about 2.2) absent on 31 March, down from 202,000 (about 2.5) in mid-March.
7 April:Hospitals in England are under enormous strain, with some so busy they are having to divert ambulances to other sites20 hospitals have issued such instructions in the past week.
19 April:Patients waiting in NHS hospitals, GP surgeries and emergency departments in England are no longer required to socially distance.
27 April:The High Court of England and Walesrules that the UK government's policies on discharging untested patients from hospital to care homes in England at the start of the pandemic was unlawful because they failed to take into account the potential risk of COVID-19 to elderly and vulnerable people.
18 May:England's former deputy chief medical officer, Professor Sir Jonathan Van-Tam, has missed the ceremony at which his knighthood was due to be given after becoming infected with COVID-19.
25 May:Figures reveal that almost 4,000 passengers were fined for not wearing face coverings on the London transport network when it was mandatory to do so.
28 May:A 20m memorial to people who died from coronavirus is ceremonially burned in an event at the Miners' Welfare Parkin Bedworth, Warwickshire, attended by thousands of people. The idea of raising the sculpture, titled Sanctuary, to the ground is an attempt to help people heal.
15 July:The England women's national football teammanager, Sarina Wiegman, has tested positive for COVID-19 shortly before England's Euro 2022final group game against Northern Ireland.
6 August:Brighton and Hove Pridereturns for the first time since the pandemic, having been cancelled in 2020 and 2021.
9 August:Figures published by NHS Englandindicate the number of people in England waiting more than two years for routine surgery has fallen from 22,500 at the start of 2022, to less than 200.
12 August:The first annual Boomtown Festivalto be held post-pandemic, opens in Hampshire, having been cancelled in 2020 and 2021.
14 August:The Crown Prosecution Serviceconfirms that six people who were charged with breaching lockdown rules after attending demonstrations in the wake of the March 2021 murder of Sarah Everardwill not be prosecuted.
24 August:The UK government announces that most hospital patients and care home residents in England will no longer be required to take COVID-19 tests, although new admissions into both will continue to be tested. Free lateral flow tests for health and social care staff will also end from 31 August.
5 September:The deployment of the Autumn 2022 COVID-19 booster programme begins in England, with care home residents and people who are housebound the first to be offered the vaccine.
13 October:A Sheffield woman who held a rave during one of the COVID-19 lockdowns has had her case withdrawn by the Crown Prosecution Service.The latest health figures show that hospital waiting lists in England have reached seven million, their highest since records began.
18 October:NHS Englandwarns that up to half of its hospital beds could be taken up with patients suffering respiratory problems because of a twindemicof COVID-19 and flu over the coming winter.
7 November:Analysis by BBC News has indicated a 10rise in the number of five- and six-year-olds in England requiring speech therapy in the past year, something that experts partially attribute to the effect of the COVID-19 lockdowns.
16 November:Ben Hamilton, a County Durham businessman who claimed a 25,000 Bounce Back Loan in May 2020 then dissolved his business the following day is given a 15-month suspended sentence after admitting to fraud at a hearing at Teesside Magistrates' Court.
30 December:The UK government confirms that passengers arriving in England from China will need to provide a negative COVID test before boarding their flight when China fully reopens its borders on 8 January.