3 January:, Health MinisterDr Zaliha Mustafaannounced several measures to curb rising cases as travel increased including testing all overseas travellers for fever and offering walk-in vaccinations at hospitals and clinics from 9 January.
4 January:, Sabah's State Local Government and Housing Minister Datuk Seri Masidi Manjunannounced that all travellers from China would have to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and had to present a negative COVID-19 test.
10 January:, the Ministry of Healthconfirmed that the Immigration Departmentwould be screening travellers from China for COVID-19 in response to an outbreak in China.
12 January:, Menteri Besar of SelangorDatuk Seri Amirudin Sharistated that the Selangor state government was considering stepping up COVID-19 prevention measures including contact tracing measures if the number of cases in the state rose. He also encouraged residents to take booster doses.That same day, Dr Mustafa confirmed that Malaysia would not be closing its borders since the COVID-19 situation in the country was under control. However, border screenings would continue.
13 January:, the states of Sarawakand Kedahbegan screening the temperatures of travellers entering their borders.
27 January:, The Starreported that Penangstate had only reported a total of 235 new cases between 12 and 25 January 2023. Only one of the state's 92 mukim(or sub-districts) remained a red-zone.
29 January:, the Ministry of Healthconfirmed that 9,088 of the 9,480 active cases were undergoing home quarantine. In addition 371 individuals (3.9) were hospitalised with 21 of these cases undergoing intensive care.
10 February:, Health Minister Mustafa confirmed that the Health Ministry would establish a task force to write a White Paperon the COVID-19 vaccine procurement practices of previous Malaysian governments.
13 February:, Director-General of Health Noor Hisham Abdullahconfirmed that COVID-19 data would potentially be released on a weekly rather than daily basis from March 2023.
16 February:, the Sabah state government confirmed that it would change the frequency of its COVID-19 statements from daily updates to weekly updates issued on Monday.
4 March:, Health Minister Zainal Mustafa confirmed that three COVID-19 cases had been detected among flood victims in the state of Johorand quarantined in hospitals.
20 March:, the Terrengganu Islamic Religious and Malay Customs Council (Maidam) eliminated facemask requirements for all mosque and surau attendees in the state.
29 March:, Penang General Hospitalinfectious diseases unit head Datuk Dr Chow Ting Soo advised high-risk individuals including those with comorbidities to wear face masks to protect against various infectious diseases including the Omicron variantof COVID-19.
7 April:, the Health Ministry approved the use of AstraZeneca's Evusheld 100mgml solutionfor treating COVID-19 patients.
11 April:, Kedahstate's Health and Local Government Committee chairman Datuk Dr Mohd Hayati Othmanadvised the public to wear masks in public spaces after COVID-19 cases increased by 141.4 percent (or 169 cases) during the first week of the month.
14 April:, Melaka's State Health director Datuk Dr Rusdi Abd Rahman reported 226 cases at three boarding schools in the state.
17 April:, in response to rising cases and social gatherings during the Hari Raya Puasaperiod, several public health experts including Universiti Kebangsaan MalaysiaProf Dr Sharifa Ezat Wan Puteh, Universiti MalayaProfessor Dr Moy Foong Ming, and Malaysian Public Health Physicians Associationpresident Datuk Dr Zainal Ariffin Omar, and Universiti Putra Malaysiamedical epidemiologist Assoc Prof Dr Malina Osman advocated various health measures including booster vaccines, mask wearing, and for positive cases to isolate at home.
25 April:, Health Minister Zainal Mustafa confirmed that the SARS-CoV-2 XBB.1.16 (Arcturus) viral subvariant had arrived in Malaysia. 12 cases were reportedwith six in Sarawak, four in Selangorand two in Kuala Lumpur.
28 April:, Health Minister Zainal encouraged school students to wear face masks when returning to school the following week.
8 May:, Health Minister Dr Zaliha Mustafa announced that COVID-19 would no longer be considered a public health emergency, citing a recent decision by the World Health Organization's Emergency Committee of the International Health Regulations (2005) on 4 May.
16 May:, Sabah's Tuarandistrict was placed back in the red zoneafter recording a spike of 26 cases in the previous week (7 to 13 May).
23 May:, Sarawak's Deputy Premier Dr Sim Kui Hianannounced that the COVID-19 pandemic in his state was declining, citing lower mortality figures in 2023 compared with last year. At the time, Sarawak had reported nine COVID-19 deaths in 2023, with a mortality rate of 0.31 per 100,000 people. In 2022, Sarawak had reported 167 COVID-19 deaths, with a mortality rate of 5.41 per 100,000 people.
2 June:, Health Minister Dr Zaliha Mustafa confirmed that the Government would revise the COVID-19 Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) in mid-June following the World Health Organization's decision to no longer categorise the disease as a global health emergency.
16 June:, the Health Minister Dr Zaliha reported that the number of COVID-19 cases had decreased by 15.7between 4 and 10 June3,814 cases compared with 4,523 cases reported in the previous week.
29 June:, Dr Zaliha announced that the Malaysian Government was eliminating facemask requirements on public transportation and healthcare facilities, and reducing the quarantine period from seven to five days, effective 5 July. This announcement came in response to declining local cases and the World Health Organization declaring that COVID-19 was no longer a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC).The Health Minister also extended the status of local Infectious endemic areafrom 30 June to 31 December 2023.
1 July:, Universiti Sains Islam Malaysiafamily medicine specialist Assoc Prof Dr Mohd Radzniwan Abd Rashid and Universiti Putra Malaysiapublic health practitioner Assoc Prof Dr Malina Osman welcomed the Government's decision to revise its standard operation procedures, citing the World Health Organization's decision to declare that COVID-19 was no longer a global health emergency.
7 July:, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysiapublic health specialist Prof Dr Sharifa Ezat Wan Puteh advocated mask-wearing as a means of preventing COVID-19 and other respiratory infections.
20 December:, the Health Ministry also encouraged people to take the COVID-19 vaccines, publishing a list of 234 vaccination centres on the MySejahteraapp.
21 December:, Malaysia reactivated its Heightened Alert System in response to a surge in COVID-19 cases domestically and in the wider Southeast Asia region.That same day, Johorstate reported a 20-fold increase in COVID-19 cases.The Sarawak government also approved RM 4.85 million to help the Health Department cope with rising COVID-19 cases.
27 December:, the Government deployed health department officials and medical staff at flood evacuation centres in Terengganuto screen people for COVID-19.
28 December:, Kedah health authorities confirmed that the situation was under control at two COVID-19 clusters in Kuala Mudaand Kota Setar.
29 December:, the Health Ministry stated that COVID-19 cases in Malaysia were under control, with only 0.5of patients admitted to hospital and a death rate of 0.08.
30 December:, 14 new COVID-19 cases were reported at flood evacuation centres in Kelantanand Terengganu.